TODO.md, before:

# TODOs

## Plans for Tuesday (Jul 8):

_Playable game start to finish_

- game engine
  - biomass/size
  - level scaling
  - cost scaling
  - shop scaling?
- blob animations
  - tween the growth
  - tone the ripple down as it grows
- map
  - transitions between levels
  - simple first steps for today
- HUD:
  - add visual elements for generators (ask ai to brainstorm dif names)

## Plans for Wednesday (Jul 9):

- blob:
  - interaction with food
- map:
  - better quality/zoom feature
- game scaling:
  - headlines/achievements

### Animation details

**Scene change** --> once you reach a certain size, you 'evolve' and map zooms out
when blob is in a petri dish -- it fills up the petri dish and breaks out in a planned animation (breaks out and starts next phase)

### Stretch goals

**Juice (at end)**

- blob - nutrient interactions
- temporary power-ups show up on screen (double growth, cheaper shop, etc.) - this essentially replaces the idea of different types of slimes
- animations for level changes (breakout of petri dish, etc.)
- fun text updates/quotes on level upgrades
- enemies and associated upgrades (militaries or people eating?)
- control zoom level

### Out of scope

- accounts/session management
- splitting blobs
- 3D
- pausing
- moving anything besides the blob/map

## Plans for Thursday (Jul 10):

### Main Focus

- [x] Clean up App.tsx
- [x] Generator visuals
  - [x] Only show gens from current level
  - [x] Fix floating number animations
- [x] Better intro / tutorial: 3-4 instruction bubbles
- [x] SFX for clicking blob, evolve
- [x] Clean up configuration files (bun, npm, ts.config)
- [x] Deploy

- Playtesting

### Friday goals

- [ ] Progression scaling/rebalancing - make the first 30 seconds delightful!
- [ ] Improve shop UI/UX
- [ ]enemies and associated upgrades (militaries or people eating?)
- [ ] Ambient music for main menu and/or levels
- [ ] Better ending - set threshold, but can continue after cool animation
- [ ] Game name (Bloblog, Slime Sovereign, Sublobination)
- [ ] Codebase testing

### Out of scope / Tomorrow's JUICING

- Different music/SFX for each level
- Make nutrients part of gameState
- Save state persistence

Commit message:

Update TODO list, add new particle images, and refactor ParticleSpawner for new visual types
- Added achievement notifications to TODO.
- Removed unused particle images (city-icon, flower-plant, landscape-icon).
- Added new particle images for galaxies, mice, spaceships, and tanks.
- Refactored ParticleSpawner to support new visual types based on current level.
- Updated particle configuration to reflect new visual types.

TODO.md, after:

# TODOs

## Plans for Tuesday (Jul 8):

_Playable game start to finish_

- game engine
  - biomass/size
  - level scaling
  - cost scaling
  - shop scaling?
- blob animations
  - tween the growth
  - tone the ripple down as it grows
- map
  - transitions between levels
  - simple first steps for today
- HUD:
  - add visual elements for generators (ask ai to brainstorm dif names)

## Plans for Wednesday (Jul 9):

- blob:
  - interaction with food
- map:
  - better quality/zoom feature
- game scaling:
  - headlines/achievements

### Animation details

**Scene change** --> once you reach a certain size, you 'evolve' and map zooms out
when blob is in a petri dish -- it fills up the petri dish and breaks out in a planned animation (breaks out and starts next phase)

### Stretch goals

**Juice (at end)**

- blob - nutrient interactions
- temporary power-ups show up on screen (double growth, cheaper shop, etc.) - this essentially replaces the idea of different types of slimes
- animations for level changes (breakout of petri dish, etc.)
- fun text updates/quotes on level upgrades
- enemies and associated upgrades (militaries or people eating?)
- control zoom level

### Out of scope

- accounts/session management
- splitting blobs
- 3D
- pausing
- moving anything besides the blob/map

## Plans for Thursday (Jul 10):

### Main Focus

- [x] Clean up App.tsx
- [x] Generator visuals
  - [x] Only show gens from current level
  - [x] Fix floating number animations
- [x] Better intro / tutorial: 3-4 instruction bubbles
- [x] SFX for clicking blob, evolve
- [x] Clean up configuration files (bun, npm, ts.config)
- [x] Deploy

- Playtesting

### Friday goals

- [ ] Progression scaling/rebalancing - make the first 30 seconds delightful!
- [ ] achievement notifications (ai gen?) + sfx
- [ ] Improve shop UI/UX
- [ ] enemies and associated upgrades (militaries or people eating?)
- [ ] Ambient music for main menu and/or levels
- [ ] Better ending - set threshold, but can continue after cool animation
- [ ] Game name (Bloblog, Slime Sovereign, Sublobination)
- [ ] Codebase testing

### Out of scope / Tomorrow's JUICING

- Different music/SFX for each level
- Make nutrients part of gameState
- Save state persistence
